Our challenge was to take a number
of different inputs, right?
And basically control the Cyprus, and
then evaluate that the result
is what we would expect, right?
And really make sure that when
we set a different input field,
that it did the thing, right?
Because one of the things if you
play with it, you might have noticed
that setting the value doesn't necessarily
for the DOM framework of your choice.
Always update any of the state, so
you both need to set the value
as well as trigger it, right?
And that's why we have that second column
there, to make sure that like not only
did we set it we also updated anything
that depends on it as well, right?
And like I said, this is basically
true of any of the frameworks that
you might be using, so it is kind
of agnostic across them as well.
So for most of them,
they just have a selector for each, and
so they have in this case,
we're gonna type I thought in there.
And then we're gonna make
sure that the result contains
the exact same thought in this case,
right?
And this case the thought being that
ravioli is are a subset of public
PopTarts.
So, we saw what we can do with a select,
right, so
I should be kind of just taking what
we saw in the previous example.
And paying for, does anyone so
the Select is your favorite Avenger?
Does anyone anyone liked it?
I only pick the original six,
it's not like an end game situation here.
Mostly that wasn't typing that all out,
does anyone wanna cast a vote,
I mean would you have to change it?
From my choice, let's go with store,
so we'll go ahead and
we know this one we just
call select on it, right?
And then we should see
that on the other side,
we will just use contains in this case,
right?
Cuz we're just verifying that we've
updated the DOM appropriately,
we'll check on that one a second.
The checkboxes on the other hand,
let's go look at how it behaves and
see what we would like to do in this case.
So checking one displays it checking two,
basically or
three gives some amount of comma
separated values in this case.
So let's go ahead and we can either
pick one or something along those lines.
If you're unclear on what
the right selectors are,
you have the kind of ability to go either
into you can look at the elements to
in the regular Chrome Inspector, or
you can use a selector playground as well.
I think that these also
have data attributes,
it's interesting that the playground
wants to use the for attribute.
But that also works as well and
there's only one on the page, so
like if you're ever like I
don't know this is what I want.
You can at least get some of
the data around that as well,
pretty sure let's see.
Grab one of these is because
the label has the four and
then there is the actual
data test attribute as well.
So you can use either one of those
depending on what 20 like better honestly.
So in this case, we will go ahead, so
in this we have it is saying
it contains none, and
then we can change the result.
So why don't we go ahead,
we'll make sure it starts with none,
let's take tomato, sardines,
and then the result.
I guess you could theoretically
do each one separately,
you should just contain these two words,
but
let's try tomato, sardines.
So these are we actually have
to this won't do anything yet,
this test will fail because we
didn't actually check them, right?
You can click them we're gonna use
the check one in this case, but
let's just watch it fail in this case.
You can see like, hey,
I look for 4000 milliseconds,
which sounds a lot longer
than four seconds.
But look for 4000 milliseconds to see that
over in here and it didn't happen, right?
Because some things happen maybe
on the next event loop cycle, or
maybe they're had you an Ajax request,
so on so forth.
So it doesn't go like
immediately it wasn't there,
it will normally give you a little bit
of a grace period and then give up.
This is like in a lot of cases
not something that a lot
of the predecessors to cybers did, right?
If it wasn't there your test failed, and
you'd play the game of
like you'd open up a PR.
And you'd spend almost as much time as to
write the feature figuring out why your
test cases were flaky.
Cuz maybe like some service that you
didn't have stubbed out was taking too
long or something along those lines.
So in this case, let's go ahead and
we can flip back,
and should just be able to check it.
So we'll check both of those and
we'll see what we get.
Now we see that one passes, and the reason
we don't see it on the page at the end,
cuz we're revisiting the page for
the first time before every test, right?
We could theoretically have one
test that did all of these,
that would arguably be faster, right?
Cuz we wouldn't reset the page go and
reload all those things, so
it all depends, you might want
to have everything separated for
the cases of learning gather separated.
So you can like figure out which one is
failing, but there's nothing stopping you
from just having a run that does
all the things on the page,
and expects things to
end up a certain way.
All right, cool So
radio buttons are also you can also
check them as well, so
in this case, we can check Ringo.
Which is the one we kind of have
preloaded, not my favorite beatle, but
it's fine.
It's Paul, in case you were all wondering.
So that should contain Ringo in this case,
as we go through, perfect.
All right, so the color input,
so this one has a value that is
some hexadecimal color, but
we clearly can't type into it.
It's not really a select, what do we do?
This one is very similar
to the range operator,
where we have to basically set its value,
and then invote the change event.
So here we'll say we'll invoke the value,
and
we'll set this to I don't have a favorite
hex color that they wanna share.
>> Abcdef.
>> Abcdef, suite and
then we'll trigger an input event.
And then the value I'm pretty
sure that the behavior of
the actual HTML element
is it keeps it lowercase,
regardless of what we type in,
but we can find that out too.
A, b, c, d, e, f.
All right, I just have to know.
>> Brownish red I think.
>> No so it's a bluish, right?
Cuz the higher values are on the, yeah,
I quite like that color actually,
it's like one might even
call it a periwinkle.
All right, so the date input this one's
I kinda alluded to in the setup for
this, what you see is not
necessarily what you get.
So this is a date of input you can kind of
click on any of the different date fields,
you get this cool built in calendar.
But like there's a bunch of pseudo
elements that are kinda hard to get to, so
in this case, again, we would probably
set the value and invoke a change.
And it's kinda interesting to think about,
what the use case would be for
me testing this.
It's probably, I think about the use case
that I most recently used on this one
which is I should change it that
should trigger an API request.
And I wanted to make sure that the query
params going to the API request,
were the correct ones, and
that triggered an API request.
So the actual like, can I click
a native Chrome or Firefox date and
field is not that important to me.
I assume that the chromium team or
the human Mozilla
have tested the actual
mechanisms of that box.
I usually want the downstream
effects of that change, right?
So in that case, we would go ahead and
we would invoke that value method again.
And we got to put it in year, month, day,
cuz that is effectively the normalized
structure that is keeping that in.
So we'll do, I don't have a favorite day,
what's today is 2021-12-17, cool, so
I put in my birthday,
I don't need to dox myself right now.
And we'll go ahead and basically
verify that is what gets rendered at
the other end,
because if we put in something.
I am actually somewhat curious what
happens if we put in invalid data,
we invoke that what it does,
we can find out.
So I do have to get rid of that only,
otherwise none of this will
work the way I planned.
So we'll go ahead and again this
will contains what we think it does.
Cool, out of my head, just for
my own curiosity, let's go ahead and just,
I wonder if you give it
a good Americanized date.
What it will do in that sense?
Actually it gets a little funky,
where the value that renders is correct,
but the Date field doesn't
know what to do with it.
So we learned something today.
All right, the range that we saw
before that is again the same move.
And what we'll see a little bit is there
are ways to kind of add additional
functionality to Cypress.
And so this might be a thing that you
would choose necessarily add is what we
call a command, right?
And there are ways to make commands
that becomes the start at the chain,
intermediary in the chain,
and you can create kind of your
own custom pieces as well.
I usually don't,
because sometimes I want different events,
there's not enough of them
to really justify it for me.
So what are the options here,
it's just it's probably
one to 10, so we'll say six, and will say.
26 and we got a clear that only.
Great, and so that one,
Anyone know what I did wrong?
I accidentally told you before, I changed
the value, I didn't trigger anything.
I'd love to tell you that I
purposely mentioned it earlier and
then forgot to do it, I'd love for
that to be the story.
In fact, that's totally what happened,
I didn't make a mistake,
I don't make mistakes.
I just cursed myself for the remainder
of this workshop, so all right, cool.
The file input like I mentioned
before you can do the same trick,
there is I'll show you in a little bit.
There is a plugin also,
that gives you a new method that Cypress
does include called Attach File.
And it will allow you to do that as well,
but
we can also set it as a value in this
case, it is kind of interesting.
I don't actually think I have a file on
my desktop, but is easily accessible, and
I don't feel like digging through
my file system at this moment.
But essentially,
if you like show the file on the page,
it's like C colon slash fake
data slash the file name, right?
And so that's actually how
the the normal input itself behaves, but
under the hood for any browser that
does not support any of these different
types of infield,
they all fall back to a textfield.
So under the hood, they are all text
inputs at the end of the day for
browsers that don't support them.
The same way if you just said input
type and you just gave it like pizza,
it would be a text field, right?
And that is the default behavior
with the progressive enhancement
of those features as we go through.